Common syntax errors:
Misspellings

Incorrect indentations

Missing or incorrect key characters:

Bracket types - ( curved ), [ square ], { curly }

Quote types - "straight-double" or 'straight-single', “curly-double” or ‘curly-single’

Block introduction characters, like colons - :

Data type mismatches

Missing, incorrectly used, or misplaced Python reserved words

Using the wrong case (uppercase/lowercase) - Python is a case-sensitive language 

Code comparison with Python
You will be learning about both Python and Bash scripting in this program. The following code illustrates a syntax difference between the two languages:

 Print to screen in Python  

 Print to screen in Bash  

>> print("Hello, how are you?")

Hello, how are you?

>> echo Hello, how are you?

Hello, how are you?


  Key Terms
Platform-specific / OS specific scripting language - Platform-specific scripting languages, like PowerShell (for Windows) and Bash (for Linux), are used by system administrators on those platforms. 

Client-side scripting language - Client-side scripting languages, like JavaScript, are used mostly for web programming. The scripts are transferred from a web server to the end-user’s internet browser, then executed in the browser.

Machine language - Machine language is the lowest-level computer language. It communicates directly with computing machines in binary code (ones and zeros). In binary code, one equals a pulse of electricity and zero equals no electrical pulse. Machine language instructions are made from translating languages like Python into complex patterns of ones and zeros. 

Cross-platform language - Programming language that is compatible with one or more platforms / operating systems (e.g., Windows, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android).

Object-oriented programming language - In object-oriented programming languages, most coding elements are considered to be objects with configurable properties. For example, a form field is an object that can be configured to accept only dates as input in the mm/dd/yy format, and can be configured to read from and write to a specific database. 

Python interpreter - An interpreter is the program that reads and executes Python code by translating Python code into computer instructions.









Values: True, False, None
Conditions: if, elif, else
Logical operators: and, or, not
Loops: for, in, while, break, continue
Functions: def, return  



Arithmetic operators
Python can calculate numbers using common mathematical operators, along with some special operators, too:  

x + y            Addition + operator returns the sum of x plus y
x - y             Subtraction - operator returns the difference of x minus y
x * y            Multiplication * operator returns the product of x times y
x / y             Division / operator returns the quotient of x divided by y
x**y            Exponent ** operator returns the result of raising x to the power of y 
x**2            Square expression returns x squared
x**3            Cube expression returns x cubed
x**(1/2)    Square root (½) or (0.5) fractional exponent operator returns the square root of x
x // y           Floor division operator returns the integer part of the integer division of x by y
x % y          Modulo operator returns the remainder part of the integer division of x by y

Order of operations
The order of operations are to be calculated from left to right in the following order: 

Parentheses ( ), { }, [ ]

Exponents xy   (x**y)

Multiplication * and Division /  

Addition + and Subtraction -    

 You might find the PEMDAS mnemonic device to be helpful in remembering the order.   


Resources for more information
For more information about the concepts covered in this reading, please visit:

Built-in Functions
 - Lists and summarizes Python’s built-in functions.

Python Keywords
 - Lists Python’s reserved keywords and a brief description of what each keyword does.

Different Arithmetic operators in Python
 - Provides more examples of the proper syntax for using arithmetic operators in Python.



Terms and definitions from Course 1, Module 1 
Automation: The process of replacing a manual step with one that happens automatically

Client-side scripting language: Primarily for web programming; the scripts are transferred from a web server to the end-user’s internet browser, then executed in the browser

Code editors: Tools to provide features, including syntax highlighting, automatic indentation, error checking, and autocompletion

Computer program: A step-by-step list of instructions that a computer follows to reach an intended goal

Functions: A reusable block of code that performs a specific task

IDE: A software application that provides comprehensive facilities for software development

Interpreter: The program that reads and executes code

Input: Information that is provided to a program by the end user

Logic errors: Errors in code that prevent it from running correctly 

Machine language: Lowest-level computer language. It communicates directly with computing machines in binary code (ones and zeros)

Object-oriented programming language: Most coding elements are considered to be objects with configurable properties

Output: the end result of a task performed by a function or computer program

Platform-specific scripting language: Language used by system administrators on those specific platforms 

Programming: The process of writing a program to behave in different ways 

Programming code: A set of written computer instructions, guided by rules, using a computer programming language

Programming languages: Language with syntax and semantics to write computer programs

Python: A general purpose programming language 

Python interpreter: Program that reads and executes Python code by translating Python code into computer instructions

Script: Often used to automate specific tasks

Semantics: The intended meaning or effect of statements, or collections of words, in both human and computer languages

Syntax: The rules for how each statements are constructed in both human and computer languages

Variables: These are used to temporarily store changeable values in programming code


